# NBA Stats Collector and Database System

## Description

This application collects data from NBA.stats.com's REST API, parses the messages, and stores the statistics into a database in real time. This project was coded in Java in order to utilize multithreading to collect data from multiple games on multiple data streams. JDBC is used to send the parsed data to an Azure SQL Server. The application calls the API every ten seconds for quick data collection. This application is still not perfect and sometimes has discrepencies in stats due to the difficulties that occur whenever a past action is updated and the data changes i.e. whenever a 3-pointer is later ruled to be a 2-pointer.

## Install and Run
This project runs on Ubuntu through WSL on my system. In order to have this project work on your system, you need to set up a database with at least the player_game_stats and games tables set up, an environmental variable DBSTRING to the database string that connects to your database, and have Java 17 installed. Start the application at any point before the games start and it will run until the last game ends. The application can still function if you start it after the games start. Efforts have been set forth to try to minimize stress on the database when trying to catch up to live, but depending on the power of your database, it the amount of calls can freeze it up and data will be lost. Additionally, the application will not work if you stop the application and try to start it again on the same day. In order to start it again, you will have to first delete the rows added in the player_game_stats table and then the rows added in the games table.
